Create 2021-06-09-solidity-0.8.5-release-announcement.md (#141)
ethereum/solidity-blog: _posts/2021-06-10-solidity-0.8.5-release-announcement.md

---
layout: post
published: true
title: 'Solidity 0.8.5 Release Announcement'
date: '2021-06-10'
author: Solidity Team
category: Releases
---

[Solidity v0.8.5](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.5) allows conversions
from ``bytes`` to ``bytesNN`` values, adds the ``verbatim``builtin function to inject
arbitrary bytecode in Yul and fixes several smaller bugs.

## Notable New Features
### Bytes Conversion

> This release introduces the ability to convert ``bytes`` and ``bytes`` slices to fixed bytes types ``bytes1`` / ... / ``bytes32``.

Reviewer: Maybe add: "While conversion between fixed-length bytes types has always been possible, it is now also possible to convert dynamically-sized `bytes` types to fixed-length bytes types.

In case a byte array is longer than the target fixed bytes type, it will be truncated at the end:

> ```solidity
> function f(bytes calldata c) public view returns (bytes8) {
> 	require(c.length == 16, "");
> 	bytes8 b = bytes8(c); // c is longer than 8 bytes, so truncation happens
> 	return b;
> }
> ```

Reviewer: I'm wondering if it would be better to work with specific examples:
```suggestion
```solidity
function f(bytes calldata c) public view returns (bytes8) {
	return bytes8(c); // If c is longer than 8 bytes, truncation happens
}
```

Calling ``f("1234")`` will return ``"1234"``.

Calling ``f("1234567890")`` will return ``"12345678"``.
```

Reviewer 2: Completely agree, adding

If the array is shorter than the target fixed type, it will be padded with zeros at the end:

```solidity
function f(bytes calldata c) public view returns (bytes8) {
	require(c.length == 30, "");
	bytes32 b = bytes32(c); // c is 30 bytes long, so b will be padded with two zero bytes at the end
	return b;
}
```

A nice example of using the `bytes` conversion feature would be its application in proxies:

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0

> pragma solidity >0.8.4 <0.9.0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pragma solidity ^0.8.5;
```

contract Proxy {
	/// @dev Address of the client contract managed by proxy i.e., this contract
	address client;
	constructor(address _client) {
		client = _client;
	}
	/// Forward call to "setOwner(address)" that is implemented by client
	/// after doing basic validation on the address argument.
	function forward(bytes calldata _payload) external {
		// Since ABI decoding requires padded data, we cannot
		// use abi.decode(_payload[:4], (bytes4)).

> 		bytes4 sig =

Reviewer: Maybe put this in comments and just briefly say "this was the way this had to be done before"? Or even put it after or before contract inside the text?

Reviewer 2: Makes sense, will do it now

			_payload[0] |
			(bytes4(_payload[1]) >> 8) |
			(bytes4(_payload[2]) >> 16) |
			(bytes4(_payload[3]) >> 24);
		bytes4 sig = bytes4(_payload[:4]);

> 		// Due to truncating behaviour, bytes4(_payload) performs identically.

Reviewer: Is `_payload[:4]` valid if `_payload` is shorter than 4 bytes?

Reviewer 2: It is not valid, I should have added require that it has enough length

---
layout: post
published: true
title: 'Solidity 0.8.5 Release Announcement'
date: '2021-06-10'
author: Solidity Team
category: Releases
---

[Solidity v0.8.5](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.5) allows conversions
from ``bytes`` to ``bytesNN`` values, adds the ``verbatim`` builtin function to inject
arbitrary bytecode in Yul and fixes several smaller bugs.

## Notable New Features
### Bytes Conversion

_Find the complete feature documentation [here](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.5/types.html#explicit-conversions)._

This release introduces the ability to convert ``bytes`` and ``bytes`` slices to fixed bytes types ``bytes1`` / ... / ``bytes32``. While conversion between fixed-length bytes types has always been possible, it is now also possible to convert dynamically-sized bytes types to fixed-length bytes types.

In case a byte array is longer than the target fixed bytes type, it will be truncated at the end:

```solidity
function f(bytes calldata c) public view returns (bytes8) {

> 	return bytes8(c); 
> 	// If c is longer than 8 bytes, truncation happens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	// If c is longer than 8 bytes, truncation happens
	return bytes8(c); 
```
?

}
```

> Calling f("12345678") will return "12345678". Calling f("1234567890") will return "12345678".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calling ``f("12345678")`` will return ``"12345678"``, as will calling it as ``f("1234567890")``.
```

If the array is shorter than the target fixed type, it will be padded with zeros at the end, so

> calling f("1234") will return "1234".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
calling ``f("1234")`` will return ``"1234"``.
```

A nice example of using the `bytes` conversion feature would be its application in proxies:

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0
pragma solidity ^0.8.5;
contract Proxy {

> 	/// @dev Address of the client contract managed by proxy i.e., this contract

Reviewer: Why "this contract"?

Reviewer 2: I copied this from our documentation, not sure about it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	/// @dev Address of the client contract managed by this  proxy
```

	address client;
	constructor(address _client) {
		client = _client;
	}

> 	/// Forward call to "setOwner(address)" that is implemented by client
> 	/// after doing basic validation on the address argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	/// Forwards all calls to the client but performs additional checks for calls to "setOwner(address)".
```

	function forward(bytes calldata _payload) external {
		require(_payload.length >= 4);
		bytes4 sig = bytes4(_payload[:4]);
		if (sig == bytes4(keccak256("setOwner(address)"))) {
			address owner = abi.decode(_payload[4:], (address));

> 			require(owner != address(0), "Address of owner cannot be zero.");

Reviewer: Actually shouldn't we use user-defined errors instead?

Reviewer 2: Probably... In that case, this part of documentation needs update as well, but I guess can be done later

		}
		(bool status,) = client.delegatecall(_payload);
		require(status, "Forwarded call failed.");
	}
}
```

> Before, it wan't possible to do `bytes4 sig = bytes4(_payload[:4]);`, the way to do the same thing was:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before, it was not possible to do `bytes4 sig = bytes4(_payload[:4]);`, instead you had to use the following:
```

---
layout: post
published: true
title: 'Solidity 0.8.5 Release Announcement'
date: '2021-06-10'
author: Solidity Team
category: Releases
---

[Solidity v0.8.5](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.5) allows conversions
from ``bytes`` to ``bytesNN`` values, adds the ``verbatim`` builtin function to inject
arbitrary bytecode in Yul and fixes several smaller bugs.

## Notable New Features
### Bytes Conversion

This release introduces the ability to convert ``bytes`` and ``bytes`` slices to fixed bytes types ``bytes1`` / ... / ``bytes32``.
In case a byte array is longer than the target fixed bytes type, it will be truncated at the end:

```solidity
function f(bytes calldata c) public view returns (bytes8) {
	return bytes8(c); // If c is longer than 8 bytes, truncation happens
}

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

```

Reviewer 3: Missing 3 backticks. I'll fix it.

---
layout: post
published: true
title: 'Solidity 0.8.5 Release Announcement'
date: '2021-06-10'
author: Solidity Team
category: Releases
---

[Solidity v0.8.5](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.5) allows conversions
from ``bytes`` to ``bytesNN`` values, adds the ``verbatim`` builtin function to inject
arbitrary bytecode in Yul and fixes several smaller bugs.

## Notable New Features
### Bytes Conversion

This release introduces the ability to convert ``bytes`` and ``bytes`` slices to fixed bytes types ``bytes1`` / ... / ``bytes32``.
In case a byte array is longer than the target fixed bytes type, it will be truncated at the end:

```solidity
function f(bytes calldata c) public view returns (bytes8) {
	return bytes8(c); // If c is longer than 8 bytes, truncation happens
}
```

If the array is shorter than the target fixed type, it will be padded with zeros at the end:

```solidity
function f(bytes calldata c) public view returns (bytes8) {

> 	require(c.length == 30, "");

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	require(c.length == 30);
```
@mijovic Wouldn't this be better? Any reason for using empty quotes?

> 	bytes32 b = bytes32(c); // c is 30 bytes long, so b will be padded with two zero bytes at the end

Reviewer 3: I think it would be better to have comments on next line. Helps us avoid the vertical scroll bar in source code. See: https://deploy-preview-141--solidity-blog.netlify.app/2021/06/10/solidity-0.8.5-release-announcement/
